.Dd $Mdocdate: Febuary 5 2024 $
.Dt EBREAD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ebread
.Nd EPUB-to-plaintext converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ebread
.Op Fl oxVqhuv
.Op Fl 1 Ar file
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl n Ar name
.Op Fl i Ar num
.Op Fl l Ar num
.Ar EPUB
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a program that converts the XHTML contents of EPUB ebook archives into
formatted plaintext.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
will create a directory in your current working directory to put the converted
text files into. This behavior can be altered via command-line options.
.Pp
.Nm
has the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 1 Ar <file>, Fl \-output-file Ns = Ns Ar <file>
Write the converted output to
.Ar file.
.It Fl d Ar <dir>, Fl \-output-directory Ns = Ns Ar <dir>
Place the converted output into
.Ar dir.
.It Fl n Ar <name>, Fl \-name Ns = Ns Ar <name>
Name the output files
.Ar name.
A numerical suffix is added inbetween the initial portion of
.Ar name
and its file extension. If there is no extension, the suffix is just added to
the end.
.It Fl i Ar <num>, Fl \-indent Ns = Ns Ar <num>
Set the output indent size to
.Ar num.
The default size is 4.
.It Fl l Ar <num>, Fl \-line-length Ns = Ns Ar <num>
Set the output line length to
.Ar num.
The default length is 80. Please note that the length of the indent contributes
to the length of a line (eg a line length of 80 and an indent of 4 would mean
that the actual text would have a max line length of 76).
.It Fl o, Fl \-stdout
Write output to stdout.
.It Fl x, Fl \-extract
Extract the contents of
.Ar EPUB
and do no parsing.
.Fl d
can be used to set the extract directory.
.It Fl V, Fl \-verbose
Enable verbose output. On by default. Does not work with -o option.
.It Fl q, Fl \-quiet
Disable verbose output.
.It Fl h, Fl \-help
Print help message.
.It Fl u, Fl \-usage
Print usage message.
.It Fl v, Fl \-version
Print program version.
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Samuel Young.
.Sh BUGS
Probably some. Report them on my Github,
.Em https://github.com/1-1sam/ebread
